.TH OBJHASH-NG "1" "November 2025" "objtools 0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
objhash-ng: display information about ELF and PE files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
objhash-ng [\fB\-H\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
           [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR]
           [\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-sections\fR]
           [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-headers\fR]
           [\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-all\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBobjhash-ng\fR  generates hashes of ELF or PE format object files for malware detection and digitial forensics. The utility is capable of fuzz-hashing and context-triggered piecewise hashing. The options control what particular information to display.

\fIobjfile...\fR are the object files to be examined. 32-bit and 64-bit ELF or PE files are supported.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-H\fR" 4
.IX Item "-H"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4
.IX Item "--help"
.PD
Print a summary of the options to objhash-ng and exit.
.IP "\fB\-V\fR" 4
.IX Item "-V"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fR" 4
.IX Item "--version"
.PD
Print the version number of objhash-ng and exit.

  -s
  --sections

  -h
  --headers

.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4
.IX Item "-a"
.PD 0
.IP "\fB\-\-all\fR" 4
.IX Item "--all"
.PD
Equivalent to specifying: \fB\-\-sections\fR and \fB\-\-headers\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
convert-ng(1), objcopy-ng(1), objdump-ng(1), objdwarf-ng(1), objhash-ng(1), readelf-ng(1), readpe-ng(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
MIT License
.PP
Copyright (c) 2025 Kyle Wickens

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

